The President: Hi, everybody.
My number one priority
as President
is doing whatever I can to
create more jobs and opportunity
for hardworking families.
And yesterday, we learned
that businesses added
273,000 jobs last month.
All told, our businesses
have now created
9.2 million new jobs over 50
consecutive months
of job growth.
But we need to keep going
- to create more good
jobs, and give
middle-class
families a sense of security.
And I want to work with
Congress to do it.
But so far this year,
Republicans
in Congress have blocked or
voted down every serious idea
to create jobs and strengthen
the middle class.
They've said "no" to
raising the minimum wage,
"no" to equal pay for
equal work, and "no"
to restoring the unemployment
insurance they
let expire for more than two
million Americans looking
for a new job.
That's not what
we need right now.
Not when there are still
too many folks out
of work and too many families
working harder
than ever just to get by.
That's why, in my State of
the Union Address,
I said that in this Year of
Action, whenever
I can act on my own to create
jobs and expand opportunity
for more Americans, I will.
And since January, I've
taken more than
20 executive actions
to do just that.
I acted to raise more
workers' wages
by requiring that workers on
new federal contracts earn
a fair wage of at least
$10.10 an hour -
and as long as Republicans in
Congress refuse to act,
I'll keep working with
cities, states,
and businesses to give more
Americans a raise.
I acted to encourage more
pay transparency
and strengthen enforcement of
equal pay laws,
so that more women have the
tools they need
to earn fair pay.
And I'm modernizing
regulations to make
sure that more Americans who
work overtime
get the pay that they've earned.
I've launched new hubs
to help attract more
high-tech manufacturing
jobs to America -
and ordered a reform of job
training programs
to make sure more Americans can
earn the skills that
employers need right now.
I've brought together
business leaders
to help us connect more
classrooms to high-speed
internet, and give more of the
long-term
unemployed a better shot at
finding a job.
Each of these steps
will make a difference.
You can check out the full
list at whitehouse.gov.
But we could do a lot more
if Republicans
in Congress were less interested
in stacking the deck in favor
of those at the top, and
more interested in growing
the economy for everybody.
They've now voted more
than 50 times
to take apart the Affordable
Care Act -
imagine if they voted 50 times
on serious jobs bills.
That's why I'm going to
take action
on my own wherever I can.
To grow our economy from
the middle-out,
not the top down.
To give every American who
works hard a chance
to get ahead.
That's what this Year of
Action is all about,
and that's what I'm going
to keep fighting for.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.